# 6.NULL:The Missing Semester of Your CS Education

## Lec1.Course overview + the shell

### Shell
```shell
cd - # will cd to the directory you were perviously in
>> # redirect STDOUT with append
| # take output of the program to the left and make input of the program to the right
```
### Permission
First, the d at the beginning of the line tells us that missing is a directory. Then follow three groups of three characters (rwx). These indicate what permissions the owner of the file (missing), the owning group (users), and everyone else respectively have on the relevant item.

### Quote
https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Double-Quotes.html#Double-Quotes



## Lec2.Shell Tools and Scripting

### Shell Scripting

To assign variables in bash, use the syntax `foo=bar` and access the value of variable  with `$foo`. (Note that `foo = bar` will not work, in general, in shell script the space character will perform argument splitting) 



Strings delimited with `'`' are literal strings and will not subsitute variable values where as `"`delimited strings will.

```shell
foo=bar
echo "$foo"
# bar
echo '$foo'
# $foo
```

a shell script file(mcd.sh):

```shell
mcdfunc () {
	echo "$0"
    mkdir -p "$1"
    cd "$1"
}
# > $ mcdfunc 123                                                                
# mcdfunc
# zhao70@laptop ~/123  
```

source命令也称“点命令”， 是bash的内部命令

```shell
source mcd.sh # execute the script in our shell and load it 
. mcd.sh
```

source filename, sh filename 及 ./filename执行脚本的三者区别？

1.  当shell脚本具有可执行权限时，用sh filename与./filename执行脚本是没有区别得。
      ./filename是因为当前目录没有在PATH中，所有"."是用来表示当前目录的。
2. sh filename 重新建立一个子shell，在子shell中执行脚本里面的语句，该子shell继承父shell的环境变量，但子shell新建的、改变的变量不会被带回父shell，除非使用export。
3. source filename：这个命令其实只是简单地读取脚本里面的语句依次在当前shell里面执行，没有建立新的子shell。那么脚本里面所有新建、改变变量的语句都会保存在当前shell里面。



- `$0` - Name of the script
- `$1` to `$9` - Arguments to the script. `$1` is the first argument and so on.
- `$@` - All the arguments
- `$#` - Number of arguments
- `$?` - Return code of the previous command
- `$$` - Process identification number (PID) for the current script
- `!!` - Entire last command, including arguments. A common pattern is to execute a command only for it to fail due to missing permissions; you can quickly re-execute the command with sudo by doing `sudo !!`
- `$_` - Last argument from the last command. If you are in an interactive shell, you can also quickly get this value by typing `Esc` followed by `.`



**command substitution**:  get the output of a command as a variable.  Whenever you place `$( CMD )` it will execute `CMD`, get the output of the command and substitute it in place.
**process substitution**: `<( CMD )` will execute `CMD` and place the output in a temporary file and substitute the `<()` with that file’s name. This is useful when commands expect values to be passed by *file* instead of by *STDIN*. `diff <(ls foo) <(ls bar)`



**shell globbing**: expanding expressions by carrying out filename expansion.

* Wildcards: use `?` and `*` to match one or any amount of characters respectively.

* Curly braces `{}`: 

  ```shell
  touch {foo,bar}/{a..c}
  touch convert image.{png,jpg}
  ```

  

**shebang**: at the top of the script. It is a good practice to write shebang lines using the  [`env`](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/env.1.html) command that will resolve to wherever the command lives in the system, increasing the portability of your scripts.

### Shell Tools

#### 查找文件

```shell
# 查找所有名称为src的文件夹
find . -name src -type d
# 查找所有文件夹路径中包含test的python文件
find . -path '**/test/**/*.py' -type f
# 查找前一天修改的所有文件
find . -mtime -1
# 查找所有大小在500k至10M的tar.gz文件
find . -size +500k -size -10M -name '*.tar.gz'
# Delete all files with .tmp extension
find . -name '*.tmp' -exec rm {} \;
# Find all PNG files and convert them to JPG
find . -name '*.png' -exec convert {} {.}.jpg \;
```

如果您希望模式匹配时是不区分大小写，可以使用`-iname`选项

#### 查找shell命令

对于大多数的shell来说，您可以使用 `Ctrl+R` 对命令历史记录进行回溯搜索。敲 `Ctrl+R` 后您可以输入子串来进行匹配，查找历史命令行。

输入命令时，如果您在命令的开头加上一个空格，它就不会被加进shell记录中。当你输入包含密码或是其他敏感信息的命令时会用到这一特性。

## Lec3.Vim

### Model editing

Vim has multiple operating modes.

- **Normal**: for moving around a file and making edits
- **Insert**: for inserting text(press `i`)
- **Replace**: for replacing text(press `R`)
- **Visual** (plain`v`, line`V`, or block`<C-v>`): for selecting blocks of text
- **Command-line**: for running a command(press`:`)

### Basics

#### Buffers, tabs, and windows

Vim maintains a set of open files, called “buffers”.  A Vim session has a number of tabs, each of which has a number of windows (split panes). A given buffer may be open in *multiple* windows, even within the same tab. 

#### Command-line

- `:e {name of file}` open file for editing
- `:ls` show open buffers
- `:help {topic}` open help



### Vim’s interface is a programming language

#### Movement

- Words: `w` (next word), `b` (beginning of word), `e` (end of word)
- Lines: `0` (beginning of line), `^` (first non-blank character), `$` (end of line)
- Screen: `H` (top of screen), `M` (middle of screen), `L` (bottom of screen)
- Scroll: `Ctrl-u` (up), `Ctrl-d` (down)
- File: `gg` (beginning of file), `G` (end of file)
- Line numbers: `:{number}<CR>` or `{number}G` (line {number}) //`<CR>`就是回车
- Misc: `%` (corresponding item)
- Find: `f{character}`, `t{character}`, `F{character}`, `T{character}`
  - find/to(f为光标在匹配字母上， t为光标在匹配字母前，大写为反向查找) forward/backward {character} on the **current line**
  - `,`(the previous)/ `;`(the next) for navigating matches

#### Edits

`d{motion}` delete {motion}

- e.g. `dw` is delete word, `d$` is delete to end of line, `d0` is delete to beginning of line
- `c{motion}` change {motion}
  - e.g. `cw` is change word
  - like `d{motion}` followed by `i`
- `x` delete character (equal do `dl`)
- `s` substitute character (equal to `xi`)
- `r{character}`replace character

- Visual mode + manipulation
  - select text, `d` to delete it or `c` to change it
- `u` to undo, `<C-r>` to redo
- `y` to copy / “yank” (some other commands like `d` also copy)
- `p` to paste
- Lots more to learn: e.g. `~` flips the case of a character

#### Modifiers

You can use modifiers to change the meaning of a noun. Some modifiers are `i`, which means “inner” or “inside”, and `a`, which means “around”.

- `ci(` change the contents inside the current pair of parentheses
- `ci[` change the contents inside the current pair of square brackets
- `da'` delete a single-quoted string, including the surrounding single quotes

